Class is back in session 🎓
Kiro University Challenge is a one-week crash course for Kiro, open to everyone, starting September 21st. Follow the daily lessons and incorporate what you learn to complete the final exam by October 5th 23:59 PT to earn additional credits for Kiro usage.

Submit your final exam build
Join us on Discord
↗
Follow the challenge on X and LinkedIn with #KiroUniversity. Terms and conditions apply.
1 week

Lessons post September 21st—24th, take-home final exam due October 5th

7 lessons

Study guides for the take-home final exam, plus 2 bonuses for extra credit

1 exam

Build and submit a project for your final exam (submissions open September 25th)

5,250 credits

Potential maximum award

Syllabus
Check back each day this week for the latest lessons and exam announcements.

Some lessons are unique to a specific Kiro surface – the IDE, the CLI, or Kiro Web. If you’ve only used one so far, treat this as your chance to try a new one.


Mon 9/21

Lessons 1–2


Tue 9/22

Lessons 3–4


Wed 9/23

Lessons 5–6


Thu 9/24

Lesson 7 + 2 Bonuses


Fri 9/25

Final exam



View all

Lesson 1 • 250 credits

Spec-driven development
Feature Specs provide a structured approach to building new features, guiding you through requirements gathering, technical design, and implementation planning. They work best for complex features, multi-step implementations, collaborative projects, or features needing requirements or design iteration.


Hide
Example

WHEN a user submits a form with invalid data
THE SYSTEM SHALL display validation errors next to the relevant fields
About this example

This example uses EARS (Easy Approach to Requirements Syntax) notation to write structured, testable requirements for a form validation feature. You can also use your preferred syntax, or just natural language, when giving Kiro an idea to turn into a spec. Find more guidance in the tech doc linked below.

Learn more: Specs
Lesson 2 • 250 credits

Steering documents
Give Kiro persistent knowledge about your project through markdown files in your ~/.kiro/steering/ directory. Steering files tell Kiro how to behave, so its output consistently follows your established patterns, libraries, and standards without you having to repeat yourself.


Hide
Example

Create a steering file to enforce [insert a convention or standard you want Kiro to enforce], so that [insert context for Kiro to understand your intent behind this prompt]. For example, [insert example of this convention or standard as a code output] ensures [repeat initial convention or standard] is followed.
About this example

This is a template prompt for creating a steering file in Kiro. It follows best practices to 1. define the standard or convention you want Kiro to enforce, 2. help Kiro understand the intent behind this enforcement with context, and 3. improve quality of this enforcement with a code-based comparison. Find more best practices and guidance in the tech doc linked below.

Learn more: Steering
Lesson 3 • 250 credits

Hooks
Run a command or agent prompt automatically when specific events happen in your session - the agent modifies a file, invokes a tool, or completes an action. Hooks are great for automating a trigger and corresponding action, so Kiro can handle the execution.


Hide
Example

{
  "version": "v1",
  "hooks": [{
    "name": "Lint on save",
    "trigger": "PostFileSave",
    "matcher": "\\.(ts|tsx)$",
    "action": { "type": "command", "command": "npx eslint --fix" }
  }]
}

About this example

This shows a simple PostFileSave hook that runs ESLint whenever the agent saves or edits a TypeScript file. Hooks are JSON files stored in .kiro/hooks/ and can include a trigger event, optional matcher pattern, and an action. You can create hooks from a guided form or just using natural language.

Learn more: Hooks
Lesson 4 • 500 credits

Property-based testing (IDE only)
Property-based testing (PBT) increases confidence in AI-generated code by moving away from example-based tests and instead enforcing a general rule that must always hold. Kiro extracts properties from your spec requirements, determining what can be logically tested, and creates and runs hundreds of tests against the high-level intent of that requirement. Since PBTs are optional by default, you can get your core implementation right, and then run property checks to ensure the output matches your intent.


Expand
Lesson 5 • 500 credits

Powers
Install a Kiro power and let Kiro load packaged tools, agent skills, and best practices on demand when you mention a matching keyword. Kiro powers can be created by anyone, and we also have a registry of verified powers by experts of those use cases. This means you get those experts' relevant knowledge context, automations and workflows, and tools just by installing that given Kiro power, all loading dynamically for more efficiency.


Hide
Example

my-power/
├── plugin.json          # Required manifest
├── skills/              # Agent Skills
│   └── setup/
│       ├── SKILL.md
│       └── references/
└── mcp.json             # MCP server configuration
About this example

This demonstrates how a power is packaged as a directory with a required manifest and various optional components. For your final project, you can use any Kiro power, and they work with any language or stack. Kiro powers are third-party tools that may be subject to separate terms. Only install powers from trusted sources and review their documentation and licensing.

Learn more: Powers
Lesson 6 • 1,000 credits

Model Context Protocol (MCP)
MCP is a protocol that allows you to extend Kiro's capabilities by connecting to external servers that provide access to specialized tools, prompts, and resources. Kiro can communicate with a given MCP server to call APIs, access domain-specific tools and external services, and respond to server elicitation requests if additional inputs are required during execution. You can also specify which agents can access a defined MCP server in your workspace.


Hide
Example

{
  "mcpServers": {
    "fetch": {
      "command": "uvx",
      "args": ["mcp-server-fetch"],
      "disabled": false
    }
  }
}

About this example

This example registers an MCP server called fetch that gives Kiro the ability to retrieve content from URLs on the web. MCP servers will list any prerequisites to install in their documentation and may be subject to third party terms. Only install MCP servers from sources you trust and have reviewed. You are responsible for evaluating the security of any MCP server you configure. Kiro does not vet, sandbox, or restrict the behavior of third-party MCP servers. Once installed, you can register the MCP server to your mcp.json Config file from the Kiro panel.

Learn more: Model Context Protocol (MCP)
Lesson 7 • 1,000 credits

Custom agents
Create purpose-built Kiro configurations with customized tools, permissions, context, and instructions. Connect custom agents with built-in tools like Kiro powers and hooks, external tools from MCP servers, control workspace and tool access, and configure parameters for tool behavior for each agent. This means you can securely optimize your workflows and streamline execution with pre-approvals and enhanced context, all in a sharable configuration file.


Hide
Example

{
  "name": "my-agent",
  "description": "A custom agent for my workflow",
  "tools": ["read", "write", "shell"],
  "excludedTools": ["knowledge"],
  "includeMcpJson": true,
  "includePowers": false,
  "resources": [
    "file://./ARCHITECTURE.md",
    "skill://backend-patterns"
  ],
  "permissions": {
    "rules": [
      { "capability": "shell", "match": ["npm *", "git *"], "effect": "allow" }
    ]
  },
  "prompt": "You are a helpful coding assistant",
  "model": "claude-sonnet-5",
  "welcomeMessage": "Ready to help. What are you working on?"
}

About this example

This shows a custom coding-assistant agent that can read, write, and run shell commands (limited to npm and git), pre-loaded with your ARCHITECTURE.md and backend-patterns skill. It runs on claude-sonnet-5 and greets you with "Ready to help. What are you working on?"

Learn more: Custom agents
Bonus lesson 1 • 250 credits

Kiro Web, cloud sessions, and cloud configuration
Kiro Web, cloud sessions, and cloud configuration are available in US East (N. Virginia) and included with Pro, Pro+, Pro Max, and Power subscriptions. This lesson is not required on the final exam to be eligible for the 1000-credit completion reward. Use these features in your final project build and submission to earn an extra 250 Kiro credits.

Explore agentic engineering in the cloud with Kiro Web, cloud sessions, and cloud configuration, shifting your work off your local machine. Kiro Web introduced working with Kiro in a cloud sandbox, and cloud sessions extend that to the CLI and IDE, so your Kiro sessions stay with your account and follow you across Kiro tools. Cloud configuration complements this by syncing your local Kiro setup into your cloud sessions, so your steering files, hooks, skills, powers, and custom agents can follow you as well.


Hide
Example
Push through a broad refactor or upgrade. Start a cloud session from the IDE or CLI for a framework upgrade, dependency migration, large API replacement, or test-heavy refactor. Upload your local .kiro configuration to cloud configuration, and that cloud work uses the same setup you've built locally while the work runs.

Learn more: Agentic engineering in the cloud
Bonus lesson 2 • 250 credits

Package a Kiro power
This lesson is not required on the final exam to be eligible for the 1000-credit completion reward. Include the Kiro power you create in your final project submission to earn an extra 250 Kiro credits.

In addition to our curated Kiro powers from the powers registry, developers can build their own Kiro powers to bundle relevant tools and resources for a given use case. Powers can be shared as public GitHub repositories without special approvals for publishing. Powers can be optionally submitted for review and consideration for inclusion on the curated Kiro powers registry here.


Hide
Example

{
  "$schema": "https://agent-plugins.org/schemas/1.0.0/plugin.schema.json",
  "name": "supabase",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "Build fullstack applications with Supabase's Postgres database, authentication, storage, and real-time subscriptions",
  "author": {
    "name": "Supabase"
  },
  "keywords": ["database", "postgres", "auth", "storage", "realtime", "backend", "supabase", "rls"]
}

About this example

This example shows the plugin.json manifest that identifies the Kiro power and tells Kiro when to activate it. Included are the minimum required fields for the manifest. Every power needs a plugin.json manifest and can include Agent Skills, MCP server configuration, and Kiro-specific extensions.

Learn more: Create powers
Final exam

Take-home final exam
A larger project that delivers real functionality. Scored across all seven required lessons.

Learn more about the final exam
{ The final exam }
One graded build
Lessons are for educational purposes only. They aren’t submitted, judged, or credited on their own. Credits come from demonstrating each lesson on the final exam.

Lessons 1-7
Take-home final exam
Opens Fri 9/25 • due Tue 10/6, 07:59 GMT+1

A larger project that delivers real functionality. Scored across all seven required lessons.

A new project built during the challenge with the first GitHub commit on or after Mon Sept 21, not before
All lessons count toward your score
Bonus lessons optional for extra credit
Final exam entry form submitted by Tue 10/6, 07:59 GMT+1
See full terms and conditions to review all submission requirements
Submit your final exam build
{ How scoring works }
Your award scales with what you actually learned and applied
There are 7 lessons included on the final exam, plus 2 bonus lessons for extra credit. The final exam scores your build on how many of the 7 required lessons you demonstrate.

Milestone	Credits
Lessons 1-3	250 credits each, up to 750
Lessons 4-5	500 credits each, up to 1,000
Lessons 6-7	1,000 credits each, up to 2,000
All 7 required lessons in final submission	1,000-credit completion award
Bonus Lesson 1 (paid plans only)	250 additional credits
Bonus Lesson 2	250 additional credits
Maximum total	5,250 credits
From September 21, 2026 at 09:00 PT to September 25, 2026 at 23:59 PT, follow the daily lessons, then build and submit a project for the final exam by October 5, 2026 at 23:59 PT to earn Kiro credits. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED. Terms and conditions apply.
